Feature/m0078 ddg 331 footprint (#101)
MicroEJ/docs: Tutorials/tutorialOptimizeMemoryFootprint.rst

Optimize the Memory Footprint of an Application
===============================================

This tutorial explains how to analyze the memory footprint of an application and provides a set of common rules aimed at optimizing both ROM and RAM footprint.

Intended Audience
-----------------

The audience for this document is Java engineers and Firmware integrators who are going to execute a MicroEJ Application on a memory-constrained device.

Introduction
------------

Usually, the application development is already started when the developer starts thinking about its memory footprint.

> Before jumping into code optimizations, it is recommended to list every area of improvement, and estimate for each area how much memory can be saved and how much effort it requires.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before jumping into code optimizations, it is recommended to list every area of improvement and estimate for each area how much memory can be saved and how much effort it requires.
```

> Without performing the memory analysis first, the developer might start working on a minor optimization which takes a lot of effort for little improvements, whereas he could be working on a major optimization allowing faster and bigger improvements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without performing the memory analysis first, the developer might start working on a minor optimization that takes a lot of effort for little improvements. In contrast, he could work on a major optimization, allowing faster and bigger improvements.
```

> Moreover, each optimization described hereafter may allow significant memory savings for an application while it may not be relevant for an other application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, each optimization described hereafter may allow significant memory savings for an application while it may not be relevant for another application.
```

How to Analyze the Footprint of an Application
----------------------------------------------

This section explains the process of analyzing the footprint of a MicroEJ Application and the tools used during the analysis.

Suggested footprint analysis process:

1. Build the MicroEJ Application on device
2. Analyze ``SOAR.map`` with the :ref:`memorymapanalyzer`
3. Analyze ``soar/*.xml`` with an XML editor
4. Link the MicroEJ Application with the BSP
5. Analyze the map file generated by the third-party linker with a text editor

Footprint analysis tools:

- The :ref:`memorymapanalyzer` allows to analyze the memory consumption of different features in the RAM and ROM.
- The :ref:`heapdumper` allow to understand the contents of the Java heap and find problems such as memory leaks.
- The `Dependency Discoverer <https://github.com/MicroEJ/Tool-DependencyDiscoverer>`_  allows to analyze a piece of code to detect all its dependencies.

How to Analyze the Files Generated by the MicroEJ Linker
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The MicroEJ Application linker generates files which can be useful for footprint analysis, such as the SOAR map file and the SOAR information file.
> To understand how to read these files, please refer to the :ref:`outputfiles` documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MicroEJ Application linker generates files useful for footprint analysis, such as the SOAR map file and the SOAR information file.
To understand how to read these files, please refer to the :ref:`outputfiles` documentation.
```

How to Analyze a Map File Generated by a Third-Party Linker
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A ``<firmware>.map`` file is generated by the C toolchain after linking the MicroEJ Application with the BSP.

> This section explains how a map file generated by GCC is structured and how to browse it. The structure is not the same on every compiler but it is often similar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section explains how a map file generated by GCC is structured and how to browse it. The structure is not the same on every compiler, but it is often similar.
```
